README.md, before:

[![Gradle Build & Deploy - Develop](https://github.com/objectcomputing/check-ins/actions/workflows/gradle-build-development.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/objectcomputing/check-ins/actions/workflows/gradle-build-development.yml)
[![Contributor Covenant](https://img.shields.io/badge/Contributor%20Covenant-2.1-4baaaa.svg)](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

<!-- TOC -->

- [Check-ins](#check-ins)
- [Project Links](#project-links)
- [Setup](#setup)
  - [directory.json](#directoryjson)
  - [credentials.json](#credentialsjson)
  - [Running the application](#running-the-application)
- [Contributing](#contributing)

<!-- /TOC -->

# Check-ins

This web application is written in [Micronaut](https://micronaut.io) for uploading files and tracking skill set of team members. This application will also be used for PDL checkins and to auto-generate resumes from the skill set.

# Project Links

**Project Document:** \*TBA\*

**Project Board:** [Board](https://github.com/objectcomputing/check-ins/projects)

**Environments:** \*TBA\*

# Setup

There are two files required to run the application successfully. Both of which must be created and placed in
`src/main/resources/secrets`

### directory.json

This is a simple JSON file containing the identifier for the Google Drive folder into which the uploaded files are to be deposited.

```json
{
  "upload-directory-id": "GOOGLE_DRIVE_FOLDER_ID"
}
```

### credentials.json

This JSON file should create the generated credentials for a service account that has access to write to the identified Google Drive folder. Information on configuring GCP service account credentials can be [found here](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-managing-service-account-keys).

Note: Be sure that the target Google Drive folder has edit access granted to the service account.

<!-- the two required files are no longer needed -->

## Running the application

#### Installs

- [Podman](https://podman.io/)
- [Podman-Compose](https://github.com/containers/podman-compose)

#### Building

1. Start the database in a Podman container:
   - Initialize and start a Podman VM:
     ```shell
     $ podman machine init
     $ podman machine start
     ```
   - Start the Podman container:
     ```shell
     $ podman-compose up
     ```
2. In a different terminal, execute the following commands :

   - On Bash/Zsh -

     ```sh
     $ OAUTH_CLIENT_ID=<Insert_Client_ID> OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET=<Insert_Client_Secret> MICRONAUT_ENVIRONMENTS=local ./gradlew build
     ```

     ```sh
     $ ./gradlew assemble
     ```

     ```sh
     $ OAUTH_CLIENT_ID=<Insert_Client_ID> OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET=<Insert_Client_Secret> MICRONAUT_ENVIRONMENTS=local ./gradlew run
     ```

   - On Powershell/Command-Line -
     Set the following environment variables -
     ```sh
     MICRONAUT_ENVIRONMENTS=local
     OAUTH_CLIENT_ID=<Client_ID>
     OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET=<Client_Secret>
     ```
     Build and run the application -
     ```sh
     $ gradlew build
     ```
     ```sh
     $ gradlew assemble
     ```
     ```sh
     $ gradlew run
     ```

3. Open the browser to run the application at `http://localhost:8080`
4. Access swagger-UI at - `http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui`

# Contributing

[Contributing](./CONTRIBUTING.md)

Commit message:

docs: update macos environment setup

README.md, after:

[![Gradle Build & Deploy - Develop](https://github.com/objectcomputing/check-ins/actions/workflows/gradle-build-development.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/objectcomputing/check-ins/actions/workflows/gradle-build-development.yml)
[![Contributor Covenant](https://img.shields.io/badge/Contributor%20Covenant-2.1-4baaaa.svg)](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

<!-- TOC -->

- [Check-ins](#check-ins)
- [Project Links](#project-links)
- [Setup](#setup)
  - [directory.json](#directoryjson)
  - [credentials.json](#credentialsjson)
  - [Running the application](#running-the-application)
- [Contributing](#contributing)

<!-- /TOC -->

# Check-ins

This web application is written in [Micronaut](https://micronaut.io) for uploading files and tracking skill set of team members. This application will also be used for PDL checkins and to auto-generate resumes from the skill set.

# Project Links

**Project Document:** \*TBA\*

**Project Board:** [Board](https://github.com/objectcomputing/check-ins/projects)

**Environments:** \*TBA\*

# Environment setup

See [Setting up your environment](https://objectcomputing.github.io/check-ins/getting-started/setup/) for instructions on setting up your development environment.

# Project setup

There are two files required to run the application successfully. Both of which must be created and placed in
`src/main/resources/secrets`.

### directory.json

This is a simple JSON file containing the identifier for the Google Drive folder into which the uploaded files are to be deposited.

```json
{
  "upload-directory-id": "GOOGLE_DRIVE_FOLDER_ID"
}
```

### credentials.json

This JSON file should create the generated credentials for a service account that has access to write to the identified Google Drive folder. Information on configuring GCP service account credentials can be [found here](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-managing-service-account-keys).

Note: Be sure that the target Google Drive folder has edit access granted to the service account.

<!-- the two required files are no longer needed -->

## Running the application

#### Installs

- [Podman](https://podman.io/)
- [Podman-Compose](https://github.com/containers/podman-compose)

#### Building

1. Start the database in a Podman container:
   - Initialize and start a Podman VM:
     ```shell
     $ podman machine init
     $ podman machine start
     ```
   - Start the Podman container:
     ```shell
     $ podman-compose up
     ```
2. In a different terminal, execute the following commands :

   - On Bash/Zsh -

     ```sh
     $ OAUTH_CLIENT_ID=<Insert_Client_ID> OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET=<Insert_Client_Secret> MICRONAUT_ENVIRONMENTS=local ./gradlew build
     ```

     ```sh
     $ ./gradlew assemble
     ```

     ```sh
     $ OAUTH_CLIENT_ID=<Insert_Client_ID> OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET=<Insert_Client_Secret> MICRONAUT_ENVIRONMENTS=local ./gradlew run
     ```

   - On Powershell/Command-Line -
     Set the following environment variables -
     ```sh
     MICRONAUT_ENVIRONMENTS=local
     OAUTH_CLIENT_ID=<Client_ID>
     OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET=<Client_Secret>
     ```
     Build and run the application -
     ```sh
     $ gradlew build
     ```
     ```sh
     $ gradlew assemble
     ```
     ```sh
     $ gradlew run
     ```

3. Open the browser to run the application at `http://localhost:8080`
4. Access swagger-UI at - `http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui`

# Contributing

Please see [Contributing](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on how to contribute to this project.
